In cryptography, the one-time pad (OTP) is an encryption technique that
cannot be cracked, but requires the use of a single-use pre-shared key that
is larger than or equal to the size of the message being sent. In this
technique, a plaintext is paired with a random secret key (also referred to
as a one-time pad). Then, each bit or character of the plaintext is encrypted
by combining it with the corresponding bit or character from the pad using
modular addition.[1]

The resulting ciphertext will be impossible to decrypt or break if the
following four conditions are met:[2][3]

1.    The key must be at least as long as the plaintext.
2.    The key must be random (uniformly distributed in the set of all
possible keys and independent of the plaintext), entirely sampled from a non
algorithmic, chaotic source such as a hardware random number generator;
patternless, according to Gregory Chaitin definition.[4] It is not sufficient
for OTP keys to pass statistical randomness tests as such tests cannot
measure entropy, and the number of bits of entropy must be at least equal to
the number of bits in the plaintext. For example, using cryptographic hashes
or mathematical functions (such as logarithm or square root) to generate keys
from fewer bits of entropy would break the uniform distribution requirement,
and therefore would not provide perfect secrecy.
3.    The key must never be reused in whole or in part.
4.    The key must be kept completely secret by the communicating parties.

It has also been mathematically proven that any cipher with the property of
perfect secrecy must use keys with effectively the same requirements as OTP
keys.[5] Digital versions of one-time pad ciphers have been used by nations
for critical diplomatic and military communication, but the problems of
secure key distribution make them impractical for most applications.

First described by Frank Miller in 1882,[6][7] the one-time pad was re
invented in 1917. On July 22, 1919, U.S. Patent 1,310,719 was issued to
Gilbert Vernam for the XOR operation used for the encryption of a one-time pa
.[8] Derived from his Vernam cipher, the system was a cipher that combined a
message with a key read from a punched tape. In its original form, Vernam's
system was vulnerable because the key tape was a loop, which was reused
whenever the loop made a full cycle. One-time use came later, when Joseph
Mauborgne recognized that if the key tape were totally random, then
cryptanalysis would be impossible.[9]

The "pad" part of the name comes from early implementations where the key
material was distributed as a pad of paper, allowing the current top sheet to
be torn off and destroyed after use. For concealment the pad was sometimes so
small that a powerful magnifying glass was required to use it. The KGB used
pads of such size that they could fit in the palm of a hand,[10] or in a
walnut shell.[11] To increase security, one-time pads were sometimes printed
onto sheets of highly flammable nitrocellulose, so that they could easily be
burned after use.

There is some ambiguity to the term "Vernam cipher" because some sources use 
Vernam cipher" and "one-time pad" synonymously, while others refer to any
additive stream cipher as a "Vernam cipher", including those based on a
cryptographically secure pseudorandom number generator (CSPRNG).

Exploits

While one-time pads provide perfect secrecy if generated and used properly,
small mistakes can lead to successful cryptanalysis:

    In 1944–1945, the U.S. Army's Signals Intelligence Service was able to
solve a one-time pad system used by the German Foreign Office for its high
level traffic, codenamed GEE.[41] GEE was insecure because the pads were not
sufficiently random—the machine used to generate the pads produced
predictable output.

    In 1945, the US discovered that Canberra–Moscow messages were being
encrypted first using a code-book and then using a one-time pad. However, the
one-time pad used was the same one used by Moscow for Washington, D.C.–Moscow
messages. Combined with the fact that some of the Canberra–Moscow messages
included known British government documents, this allowed some of the
encrypted messages to be broken.[citation needed]

    One-time pads were employed by Soviet espionage agencies for covert
communications with agents and agent controllers. Analysis has shown that
these pads were generated by typists using actual typewriters. This method is
not truly random, as it makes the pads more likely to contain certain
convenient key sequences more frequently. This proved to be generally
effective because the pads were still somewhat unpredictable because the
typists were not following rules, and different typists produced different
patterns of pads. Without copies of the key material used, only some defect
in the generation method or reuse of keys offered much hope of cryptanalysis.

Beginning in the late 1940s, US and UK intelligence agencies were able to
break some of the Soviet one-time pad traffic to Moscow during WWII as a
result of errors made in generating and distributing the key material. One
suggestion is that Moscow Centre personnel were somewhat rushed by the
presence of German troops just outside Moscow in late 1941 and early 1942,
and they produced more than one copy of the same key material during that
period. This decades-long effort was finally codenamed VENONA (BRIDE had been
an earlier name); it produced a considerable amount of information. Even so,
only a small percentage of the intercepted messages were either fully or
partially decrypted (a few thousand out of several hundred thousand).[25]

    The one-time tape systems used by the U.S. employed electromechanical
mixers to combine bits from the message and the one-time tape. These mixers
radiated considerable electromagnetic energy that could be picked up by an
adversary at some distance from the encryption equipment. This effect, first
noticed by Bell Labs during World War II, could allow interception and
recovery of the plaintext of messages being transmitted, a vulnerability code
named Tempest.[39]: pp. 89 ff 

Excerpts from: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/One-time_pad
